
# 50 Years of Data Science
Data Science is a combination of collecting, managing, analyzing, visualizing a small or huge
amount of Data, and Data Scientist is someone who is responsible for professionally
executing the process of collecting, analyzing, and interpreting any kind of structured or
unstructured data. Earlier statistics was used to manage data but it could only be used to a
limited extent as it needs mathematical formulations to interpret quantitative data, unlike
Data Science which uses scientific methods. Historically statistics focuses on very small
quantities of data using some regression techniques and would interpret if the data is
consistent. Every new invention gives us hope to enhance yourself that is the reason why data
science was developed to infuse statistics and database administrators to work on a single
platform. So, Data Science is just nothing but an advanced version of statistics including
information technology to solve huge data sets. The Job’s Meme shows how a hiring bump
has occurred in the leading companies like Google and Amazon in hiring people who are
skilled in the database and as well as statistics. The Master’s degree in Data Science will
definitely add an advantage to any organization as an individual will have knowledge of both
statistics as well as databases. This is an added advantage of having special information
technology skills. As mentioned in one of the examples how in 2010 it was told the life in
villages in India has not changed in thousands of years, but when visited in the year 2015
over 8 billion people are using smartphones and are connected to the network. This shows the
advancement of technology and also how we can use the data provided by daily activities and
preferences of people effectively. For 50 years the usage of traditional statistics has improved
a lot where now we are in a stage to use advanced techniques to solve any problem
effectively. Here I would like to mention an example of how the data was stored in floppy
disks, Digital Versatile Disks(DVD’s) decades ago whereas now we are using Cloud
technology to store any kind of data and access it from anywhere in the world. In the same
way, Statistics would draw a conclusion based on uncertainty whereas Data Analysis would
provide us with the specific results. Ultimately both Statistics and DataScience aims to
extract knowledge from data however, they differ in modeling processes and the size of data.
